---
layout: single
title: "Reflection 2018"
tags: [personal, reflection]
category: personal
excerpt: "A short reflection of 2018"
Last year I wrote the following:
> Okay how is life going Utku? I am doing fine and honestly I am afraid to say no. Maybe you are asking the wrong question.

also the following
> So what are we doing this time? A remembering exercise and maybe some thoughts that come up as a result during this process. Thats what we do today. Lets see what we did last year.

Let's start with doing the same as I did in [2016](https://evcu.github.io/personal/reflection2016/) and [2017](https://evcu.github.io/personal/reflection2017/)

### Highlights
- **Travel**:
    + 10 Days in Mexico [(video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ExRiepimfnY)
    + Iceland! [(video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EmQhPQFivas)
    + 4 days in Marmaris/Kas and 3 in Adana.
    + Burning Man with Cem [(video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1jZNf0S1Uys)
    + Baja California Sur [(video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8NGuPhZdWGw&t=62s)

-  **Personal Events**:
    + Moving to Montreal.
    + Burning Man again!

- **Personal Development**
    + Ran(all-the-way!) my first marathon.
    + Started doing yoga regularly!
    + Ran a half-marathon under 1h30m.
    + Started getting Swing dance classes.
    + Learned Google tools and Tensorflow.
    + Learned how to do laser-cutting.

- **Academic & Career**
    + Learned a lot about RL and other Research related things.
    + got into the Google AI Residency!
    + Wrote a M.Sc. Thesis in 4 months!
    + Got one paper into ICLR 2018(second author) and submitted another to ICLR 2019(rejected).

- **External**
    + Eren in Amsterdam.

One thing that I focused in last years post was the importance of dreaming things regularly. So that you decide, plan, steer yourself without much of a hustle. This doesn't mean that you shouldn't spend energy to do anything at any time; waiting for things to organize itself. This is not exactly true. One should remember the importance of regular dreaming and organizing things. And one should find the routine that makes you feel in that way.

We are living in prime time

### Lowlights
- __Downtimes__: I am not sure whether this was the case all the time. Maybe it wasn't, maybe it was. Maybe I should write in Turkish, maybe not. But looking back to my diary I can see many times I complained about not having a goal and feeling lonely in my mind. I am not sure whether this is something that would get any better by thinking on it and reflecting. I am even not sure whether this is a waste of time. Is there a thing called waste of time when you don't have a big goal? Do you have a big goal? What is that Utku? These are the questions keep coming to me.

- __Career in ML__: Didn't flourish in ML and spent a semester without research. Now I feel like I missed a train.

- __Friendships__: I am not satisfied with friendships in US in general, I miss my friends back home. I think there is a trick here. Sometimes I feel like I don't like people and I think this effects my relationships. I am happy by myself. Are you?

### General Comments
- I started this piece of text yesterday and I am trying to finish it today on the first day of the year. There are some things I want to point out. I need to assemble the parts. I have X amount of energy now and the amount can be changed in either direction. So what do you do? You can try to fix certain stuff or try to improve your capacity. Play your cards and what? What is the end that is the first thing you should ask.

I wrote the followings in my first trial, trying to reduce and reason

```
Creating Moments/Plan! -->Need to dream first! --> You need to look out for things to do and think of new things. Find new channels of information.
...constant happiness. --> Optimizing the way you live --> Be proactive and get excited about the change, be like a feather.-->Think of
...find inspiring people and things. --> Try-out new things and learn & Be sleepy.
...love people. --> Find people to love & touch them. --> Increase your interest in others.
...know interesting people --> Try-out new things and learn and be happy about yourself
...be stronger(mentally and physically). I want to be a fighter --> Attack things --> Find things to attack.
...minimize the stress in my life. --> Optimizing the way you live
...earn money-->aim goals in the career.
...be more connected to the community --> find local gatherings&organizations.
...know yourself more. What makes you happy what


...to think and remember
...not stuck into the old plans. I can forget it and re-discover.
```

I feel like there some main topics.

- Career related Development
  - To back-log. Update goals.
  - Publish
  - Find new goals.
  - Meet with new people, enlarge the network
- Personal Development
  - Find do interesting stuff
  - Find interesting people, love them
  - Learn new gathering
- Every-Day Optimization
  - How to have fun
  - How to eat healty
  - How to exercise
  - How to generate time
- Long/Mid-Term dreams
  - thinking about life and decide direction
  - Generate dreams and plan experiences


I feel like setting up a three month plan, but I don't feel like it now. So I will postpone. For now.
But this is the plan

1. Setup a repo for various lists(like things you wanna do, dream list).
2. Setup reminders for the following focuses. Focus is a session where you read the last focus report and backlog and generate a new one. Before starting go over the definition(what to focus, what to do) of each focus(first create them)
  a. Focus on your career related Development: every 1month
  b. Focus on your Personal Development: every 1month
  c. Focus on your Every-Day Optimization: every 2 weeks
  d. Focus on your Long/Mid-Term dreams: every 2 weeks
3. After three months read your reports and evaluate and decide to stop or continue
